Less h2 bashing (#1788)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-priority.md

compatibility, HTTP/2 priority signals are still mandatory to handle (see
{{Section 5.3.2 of HTTP2}}).

Clients can build RFC 7540 trees with rich flexibility but experience has shown
this is rarely exercised. Instead they tend to choose a single model optimized
for a single use case and experiment within the model constraints, or do nothing
at all. Furthermore, many clients build their prioritization tree in a unique
way, which makes it difficult for servers to understand their intent and act or

> intervene accordingly.

Reviewer: This paragraph reflects reality, I don't see it as bashing. I would like to keep something along these lines but can live with an edited down version. The difficulty for servers in interpreting or operating with relationship-based trees is one core part of the extensible priorities scheme. Some of the following edits in this PR also present text that overlooks tree troubles, I suspect we editors might want to keep that. @kazuho any thoughts?

Author: I wasn't pointing to this in particular as bashing, but more the overall effect of the section.

I thought that I addressed the most pertinent points in the text about request relationships.  More importantly, I think that h2bis covers this topic adequately and we don't need redundant text about the many ways in which RFC 7540 failed.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this sentence, by moving the point made by the last sentence below (please see my review comment below).

Regarding other sentences, I'm not sure if they are a problem related to Extensible Priorities, and do not have an argument against removing them. Also, I'd point out that the last paragraph of this PR might imply the discussion here; it says that rich flexibility was deemed unnecessary for the web use-case.

instead favor custom server-driven schemes based on heuristics or other hints,
such as resource content type or request generation order. For example, a
server, with knowledge of an HTML document structure, might want to prioritize
the delivery of images that are critical to user experience above other images,
but below the CSS files. Since client trees vary, it is impossible for the
server to determine how such images should be prioritized against other
responses.

RFC 7540 allows intermediaries to coalesce multiple client trees into a single
tree that is used for a single upstream HTTP/2 connection. However, most
intermediaries do not support this. Additionally, RFC 7540 does not define a
method that can be used by a server to express the priority of a response.
Without such a method, intermediaries cannot coordinate client-driven and
server-driven priorities.

RFC 7540 describes denial-of-service considerations for implementations. On
2019-08-13 Netflix issued an advisory notice about the discovery of several
resource exhaustion vectors affecting multiple RFC 7540 implementations. One
attack, [CVE-2019-9513] aka "Resource Loop", is based on using priority signals

> to manipulate the server's stored prioritization state.

Reviewer: I can live without this paragraph

HTTP/2 priority associated with an HTTP request is signalled as a value relative
to those of other requests sharing the same HTTP/2 connection. Therefore, in
order to prioritize requests, endpoints are compelled to have the knowledge of
the underlying HTTP version and how the requests are coalesced. This has been
a burden to HTTP endpoints that generate or forward requests in a
version-agnostic manner.

HTTP/2 priority signals are required to be delivered and processed in the order
they are sent so that the receiver handling is deterministic. Porting HTTP/2
priority signals to protocols that do not provide ordering guarantees presents
challenges. For example, HTTP/3 {{HTTP3}} lacks global ordering across streams
that would carry priority signals. Early attempts to port HTTP/2 priority
signals to HTTP/3 required adding additional information to the signals, leading
to more complicated processing. Problems found with this approach could not be
resolved and definition of a HTTP/3 priority signalling feature was removed

> before publication.

Reviewer: I can live without this paragraph.

> signals. Prioritization can use information that servers have about resources or
> the order in which requests are generated. For example, a server, with knowledge
> of an HTML document structure, might want to prioritize the delivery of images
> that are critical to user experience above other images.
> 
> RFC 7540 does not define a method that can be used by a server to provide a
> priority signal for intermediaries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
signals.

Prioritization can use information that servers have about resources or the
order in which requests are generated. For example, a server, with knowledge of
an HTML document structure, might want to prioritize the delivery of images
that are critical to user experience above other images. But with RFC 7540
trees, it is difficult for servers to understand their intent and act or
intervene accordingly, because clients build their priority tree in a unique
way.
```

I might change these paragraphs like above with the intent being:
* It's better to divide the paragraph after pointing out one problem.
* Lack of signalling method is a result of a prioritization scheme that cannot be intervened by the server. We should point out the latter rather than the former.
* Therefore, we can move the argument about intervention (coordination) from the removed paragraph at the top to here.

Author: The split in the paragraph is good.

I'm less sure about the addition.  Though I think I can agree with your intent, I don't think that the proposed scheme fixes this problem.  Overselling this is worse than the h2 bashing.

What I think you might reasonably say is that the complex/rich signals in h2 were often too complicated to act on directly, which forced servers to interpret the signals and translate them into something the server could understand and use.  But as different clients produced under the same conditions, this meant that there was no standard (some would create a chain, some would weight then, some would use placeholder nodes, it was a mess). The result was just a series of proprietary signals that only *appeared* to share the same mechanism.  The goal of this document is to produce a signal that is simple enough to be acted upon directly, with no translation.

Now, whether it is worth saying all that, when so much else has been said in criticism of the design, and the design here is already well justified, I don't know.  It's a fairly difficult concept to explain well. I concluded that it is better to just not bother.

Reviewer 2: I might argue that without the added text, existing text is just verbose, because it talks about server-driven prioritization without any relation to RFC 7540 priority trees or Extensible Priorities.

That said, I might agree that we can be even more concise. IMO the two points we have to state are:
* Extensible Priorities defines a method for combining client- and server-driven prioritization signals.
* Some servers did not fully support RFC 7540 priority trees.

The second point can be left to http2bis, but I think that the former have to be kept here, as the intent of this section is to describe the key differences between the two prioritization signals.

Author: I see your point.  How about:

> With RFC 7540 it is difficult for servers to integrate signals from clients into prioritization as the same conditions could result in very different signaling from different clients. This document describes signaling that is simpler and more constrained, requiring less interpretation and allowing less variation.

Reviewer 2: I like how concise the text is :+1: Thank you.

Reviewer: +1 strong and concise

Reviewer: Thank you.

> complex RFC 7540 setups seen in practice, at least for the web use case.

Reviewer: This is a nice simplification of the existing text.

> alternative to RFC 7540 stream priority (see {{Section 5.3 of HTTP2}}).

Reviewer: It seems odd to link to HTTP/2 when this section states disabling RFC 7540.

Author: My mistake.  I will revert this piece.

Author: ```suggestion
alternative to RFC 7540 stream priority (see {{Section 5.3 of RFC7540}}).
```
